you do think about is [music] it
selfish, is it worth it, is it something
so um
Sir Richard Branson,
Richard Branson is one [music] of the
most fun-loving and adventurous
billionaires in the world.
He's conquered our skies, blasted off
into space. It's the entrepreneurs's
entrepreneur, the marketer's marketer.
In the school of business, they said
focus. By the age of 33, you've got 50
different companies. You kind of break
that law. It seems if we'd stayed
[music] still and only focused on one
business, we wouldn't have a business
today. We still going strong 55 years
later. If you get the little details
right, [music] makes for an exceptional
company over an average company. We were
the first airline to introduce seatback
[music] videos in the world. Sleeper
seats for business class passengers.
We've always been ahead of the pack. The
airlines been [music] bullied by British
Airways famously through the Dirty
Tricks campaign. The best always
succeeds.
As if all of that you'd done before
[music] wasn't enough, you decided to
aim for the stars.
We're going to space.
Looking back at this beautiful,
beautiful Earth that we live on whilst
floating. It [music] was a dream come
true. You know, we're still at the early
stage of space travel. There's still
risks.
One pilot has died after a passenger
spaceship crashed. everything that we'd
built up uh looked like it was crashing
down. What impact does that have on you
and your mission?
You've got to continue.
Before this episode starts, I have a
small favor to ask from you. 2 months
ago, 74% of people that watch this
channel didn't subscribe. We're now down
to 69%.
My goal is 50%. So, if you've ever liked
any of the videos we've posted, if you
like this channel, can you do me a quick
favor and hit the subscribe button? It
helps this channel more than you know.
And the bigger the channel gets, as
you've seen, the bigger the guests get.
Thank you and enjoy this episode.
[music]
Richard, having spent the last 24 hours
reading both your autobiographies, but
also your new HBO um docu series, Eve,
your mother. Um she she felt like a
really really extraordinarily principled
and um strong character. And in the docu
series, you actually say that you didn't
realize how much she had influenced you
on becoming the entrepreneur you are
today. What was it that she was doing
pushing out the car at four, five years
old and making you walk home? But what
is what was were those principles that
underlined her approach?
So I mean she was one of the sort of uh
first entrepreneurs around really. I
mean, not, you know, not a particularly
successful one, but she was um making
table mats and, you know, cutting out
pretty pictures from books and and and
and um turning them, you know, turn
turning them into uh pictures that she
would then take to Harrods or um Harvey
Nichols. Um, interestingly, and I I
didn't realize this until I saw saw it
in some letters that she'd written to
me. Um, uh, um, you know, working from a
phone box in in in London. Um, and um,
uh, and that was her office just like my
office had been later on, working from a
phone box at school. Um, but um, uh,
yeah, but so she she would never stop.
She she she was an idea idea a minute.
um always trying to um uh uh you know
better be better our lives and um um and
also always trying to create things that
she could be proud of.
When was when was she most proud of you
in terms of what kind of behaviors or
achievements would make her most happy
when you were young?
Um she
um
yeah she was she was um fairly
uh yeah uh yeah she she was she was
fairly firm when it came to you know the
need for um you know being courteous um
from a young age. And I mean, I remember
uh uh in church one day I refused to go
and sit next to some somebody that she
wanted me to sit next to who was maybe
visiting our house. Um and when I got
home um uh she asked my dad to spank me
and uh that that had never happened
before. and my dad um takes me into into
the living into into the next door room
and um uh and um instructs me to burst
into tears and he slaps his hands
together very hard six times and
[laughter] I come out rubbing my bum. Um
but um um and then of course she
regretted having done it in the first
place, but of course it never happened.
[laughter]
Um they um but um
um but that you know that you know she
she she you know she generally speaking
it was um unreserved love but she she
wanted us to uh care for other people
properly. Um you know if we ever said
ill about somebody we'd be sent to the
mirror and u we'd have to stand there
for 10 minutes u because it you know she
felt it reflected so badly on us uh that
we'd said ill of somebody. Um and you
know those sort of less lessons I think
were very very very powerful and very
good uh later on in life when I was you
know leading people um always trying to
look for the best in in everybody. One
of the threads throughout your story
which um shocked me, surprised me, and
inspired me in many ways throughout the
docue series was this continual desire
to
move on to the next thing and and make
things bigger and to capture another
opportunity, which struck me as being at
times like a really defining character
of of you. You know, even when things
seemed to be successful by anyone's
estimation, you pushed on again and then
you'd push on again and again. Do do you
have any idea where that instinct or
that characteristic came from in you?
I'm sure that came from um uh my mom. Um
I am son of Eve which which is my mom's
name. Um and um
but it's al also I think because I was
dyslexic um and you know pretty hopeless
at school um I've forever been trying to
prove something to myself um and um and
and prove something you know when she
was alive to her and my dad. Um and um
uh I'm inquisitive. I just love I love
learning about new things. Um uh and
once I've actually absorbed everything
there is to know about, you know, the uh
the thing I've just created, I'm a apt
to want to move on and learn learn
something about something completely
different. um particularly if I feel
other people are not doing it well and
and um so I just love diving in there
and and um uh trying to you know shake
up an industry that is badly run.
Do you think she she and your father
even your father um Ted had high hopes
for you? I think that um my mom uh
definitely thought that I would be um
yeah, she she she
decided that I was going to be prime
minister of uh Britain one day. And um
uh and I think that um yeah, she so she
she definitely had high hopes for me. Um
uh my dad just wanted uh us to be happy.
I mean he was um a very uh love lovable,
content
um funny uh witty uh individual um
wanted to be an archaeologist but ended
up uh going into the law after after the
war and would have been happy I think
what you know as long as we were happy
um he he didn't mind you he didn't
really want to push us but um but my mom
I think expected expected more of us.
You mentioned school um a few moments
ago. You and me both have a similarity
in that we were hopeless in school. You
went off to boarding school at 7 years
old, which in and of itself is a pretty
extreme experience for a seven-year-old.
You described this as being a little bit
too young in your view. Um and you
struggled in part because of your
dyslexia
at the time. Did you did you know what
dyslexia was or what it meant?
No, I had no idea what dyslexia was. I
just um assumed that I must be a little
bit thick. Um I mean I could just about
add up and subtract, but when it got to
more complicated stuff uh like algebra
and geometry and the likes, I couldn't
understand the reason for it. I wasn't
interested in it. you know, I couldn't
understand why we were having to learn
French when when um nobody seemed to
ever actually speak it when they left
school. And um or Latin or and um and so
I suppose in my head I rebelled against
um
being taught things that I couldn't see
the relevance of. Um and um and actually
that was a good thing cuz it it it it
ended with me rebelling from actually
staying at school and leaving school at
15. Um and uh and creating some
and creating a magazine uh which um uh
to try to sort of uh address some of the
issues in the world.
Your dyslexia um you've often
highlighted that in many respects it's
been a superpower. It's given you skills
that have led to your success. What what
what is that? What are those skills and
what is the advantage in your view of
this dyslexia and how that's changed how
you function and operate?
Um I think
uh that um well first of all I'd like to
say I'm proud of being a dyslexic
thinker. Um and I I'm delighted that uh
dyslexic thinking is now becoming um
almost part of the vocabulary. Um um and
I'm pleased to to you know talk to many
dyslexic kids over the years to try to
make them realize that um you know you
know do not do not be worried about it.
Um you know look at look at the areas
that you um that you enjoy and con
concentrate on those. um and the areas
that you're not great at um you uh you
know either that you'll catch up later
on in life um or you know if you're
going to start a business you can
delegate and find other people who can
deal with those um so I think dyslexic
dyslexic people really excel at the
things that things that they're that
interest them um and I think I know a
lot of a lot of business people for
instance who were dyslexics who've um
who uh have [laughter]
have um gone gone on to do incredible
things. Your headmaster um I I read the
very uh slightly humorous, slightly um
shocking story of uh when you're at
boarding school, you had a little bit of
a romantic runin with his [laughter]
his daughter Charlotte got expelled,
staged a fake suicide, got unexpelled.
Um, and then you, as you referenced a
second ago, you had this idea for the
student magazine. I read that there was
a an ultimatum given to you by your
headmaster where he said, "Richard, I
know you're starting this magazine. You
you either got to leave school or um and
start the magazine or stay in school and
focus on your formal education." And at
that point, you made the decision to
jump ship.
Yeah. I mean, I I don't think the
headmaster was very foresighted. I think
uh you know if a kid at school wants to
start a national [snorts] magazine for
young people, what a great education and
they they should have they should have
welcomed us to stay at school and do it
you know within the from from school. Uh
but the headmaster wasn't going to um
allow me to do that. Um and and thank
God because um you know getting out into
the real world I I achieved a lot more
than I would have done um if he if he'd
um if he if he if he'd been pleasant and
said uh you know run the magazine from
school. Um there were a lot there was a
lot going on in the world. Um you know
there was the Vietnamese war. Um there
was the Baffan war. Um there were um the
provos in Holland. there was um uh uh
there was the education system that
needed students to rebel against and um
and the and so it was it was an exciting
time in the 60s to leave school, go to
London um and um try to start a
magazine.
I watched your um as I watched your docu
series yesterday in that that theater
[clears throat]
um that we're all in, including
yourself. One of the lines really struck
with struck me when when they showed the
the small room that you were building
this magazine in. I know sometimes it
was a post box but sometimes there was a
small room I think at a later date a
line was said which was um this was my
education and for young people who are
considering take taking a leap when they
have very little responsibility or think
you know very little to lose throwing
themselves in that kind of throwing
themselves in a situation where they'll
fail their way to an education struck me
as being so important and so underrated
when you don't have kids or you don't
have a house or a mortgage. Um and it
seems like that's exactly what you did.
You used like failure and risk as a way
to self-educate.
Yeah. I mean,
it's difficult for me to recommend it to
everybody listening to this program
because um not everyone's going to be
successful and obviously you and I have
been fortunate that we we have had
success doing it that way. Um some
people and and I'm going to get put my
conservative hat on knowing that the
parents may be listening as well. um you
know, some people will benefit from
having an education, you know, degree or
whatever to fall back on if they're if
they're if they're they find that
they're they just can't make a go of it
in business. Um but anyway, for I I
think for the two of us, um I think the
um uh yeah, being out in the real world,
I mean, I learned so much. Um and uh um
and it you know it's held me into such
goodstead through throughout my life. Um
you know in running a magazine of course
you know you're going out interviewing
people you're learning every time you
interview somebody. Um I
you know I think um being being a
journalist or being being an editor you
uh it's not so different from being an
entrepreneur. you're you're out all the
time meeting new people in different
sectors just learning learning learning
um and
um and you know through the magazine
uh a lot of people would write with
problems um young people would write
with problems. So um we ended up setting
up as a student advisory center u where
we would um uh give people advice on
venerial disease or gay gay pe the gay
population or um or um you know
contraceptive advice, abortion advice um
psychiatric advice um you know and um
and you know just meeting all these
people with all these different
problems. suicidal
so s so s so s so s so s so s so s so s
so s so s socidal mental problems um
really open opened my mind it was just a
fascinating fascinating education and um
and throughout my life since then I've
spent a lot of my life trying to uh
address some of these issues in a in a
in a first of all in a wider sense in
London and now more more on a global
scale and um but but that was you know
that educ educ education if um was so
important. Um you know for instance I
remember when I was 15 in London you
somebody who was gay came to me saying
that they wanted help and um maybe I
just turned 16 and um and I thought very
naively that when they said they wanted
help that you know they didn't want to
be gay. Um, of course, you [snorts]
know, within a month or two, I realized
that, you know, that people are born gay
and uh and uh and they don't have a
choice in the matter. And um and what
they what they desperately need needed
in those days was to meet other gay
people. And uh cuz it because you if
they came from um some remote place in
the UK where gay people weren't accepted
um they would come to London desperately
seeking uh seeking love or see seeking
friendship um and um uh and and so you
know just little things like that um I
learned from um just just being out
there listening and doing
your that was that magazine was your um
the first sort of big notable thing that
you you'd done in business and
throughout your story and even before I
I'd met you and watched the docu series
and read the book I was told by other
people Richard Branson's are sup an
amazing delegator you mentioned it
earlier on your your delegation skills
to understand how to delegate to someone
else you first as you've said need to
understand your strengths and weaknesses
and also their strengths and weaknesses
so what is what are your strengths in
your own words what is the bit of the
puzzle that you're good at [snorts]
I think I'm good with people. Um I think
um
uh I trust I can trust people. I think I
can surround myself with um uh you know
with with with really really good
people. I think I'm uh able to
um uh yeah to delegate to to delegate
not to second second guess them all the
time. Um
uh yeah to praise not criticize. Um and
um
uh and
uh I I think I'm I think I'm quite good
at uh if I create something making sure
it's the best, you know, the best in its
area. Um so that the people who are
working for Virgin are really proud of
what they're doing. Um
uh you know it's really important that
um you know if if if somebody's in a pub
and they work for Virgin and somebody
says what do you do that they're that
they're proud of the fact that that that
you know they work for Virgin and
they're happy to say it. Um and there
are some companies that that that um if
people work for they won't they won't
really want to be able to say that they
work for such and such a company. Um
yes, I think I I I think I think the
people's skills um is is is the most
important um skill. Um I think um
uh just giving giving you know giving
things a try. um uh you know, screw it,
let's do it. Obviously, it's one a
phrase I made years ago and and uh and
I've used that phrase many many a time.
You know, somebody comes with a an idea
and I like them and um and um yeah, just
say um you know, let's let's give it a
go. And um and sometimes we both we we
all flat fall flat in our face. sometime
some sometimes it succeeds
and conversely then what are the what
are the weaknesses that you've kind of
observed in yourself or the things that
you tend to delegate to other people um
I I actually read something which said
which is a quote of yours that said I
wanted an an IQ test at 8 years old I
don't think I filled in anything going
forward 30 or so years I was running
Europe's largest private group of
companies but I didn't know the
difference between gross and net profit
but it didn't matter
yes I was in a board meeting uh when I
was about 50 years old. And um uh and
the director um said um and I think I
said, "Is that good news or bad news?"
And and one of the directors said,
"Come, come outside, Richard, a minute."
So came outside. He said, "You don't
know the difference between that and
gross, do you?" So I said, "Uh no." Um
uh he said, "I thought not." Anyway, I
brought a sheet of paper. So, she brings
out the sheet of paper and he uh he he
has some color pens and he he colors it
in blue and then he puts a fishing net
in the um in it and then he puts a
little fish in the fishing net and he
says um so the fish that are in the net
that's your profit at the end of the
year and the rest of the ocean that's
your gross turnover
and um I went got it and uh I was ever
ever since then I've been named dropping
net and gross to people who've obviously
know full full well what it is
and um but the but the point of the
story is uh it really doesn't matter. Um
I mean it's be it's a good idea most
likely if your your ch your chief
accountant uh knows um uh but you know
for a for somebody who's running a
company
what matters is can you um you know can
you create the best um the best company
in its sector. You know, if you're going
to create an airline, [snorts] is it
going to be palpably better than um the
rival airline? If you create a cruise
company, is it going to be palpably
better than the other cruise companies?
If you're going to create a train
company, is it going to be palpably
better than what's gone before? And if
it is, then at the end of the year, it's
likely that more money that will come in
than goes out. Um and um uh and then
somebody you know somebody else can add
up add up the figures. Um
uh so I think you know to to be to to
run a to run a business you know yes it
helps to add up it helps to subtract
it helps to multiply. Um I don't even
think you need to worry about division.
Um that that's it. So um uh uh you know
so if you can if you can do those three
things um uh you can run a business. If
you can't do those three things I
wouldn't worry too much. You find
somebody else you can and just but just
go out and create something that's going
to make a positive difference to other
people's lives.
That student magazine became um kind of
pivoted [clears throat] at the end into
a mail order music business which is a
big part of the the docue series that we
watched yesterday. Um, but then it
became so many more things and it's the
interesting thing is kind of how you
swang from one of these business ideas
to the next because you'd seen a product
or service that you thought could be
done better or there was an opportunity
there. When I you know in the school of
entrepreneurship if that's like a
metaphorical thing we always talk about
the importance of focus. Now when I look
at your story from 15 years old starting
that magazine to starting a mail order
business around I think 20 22 years old
when Virgin was kind of um
conceptualized and launched and then by
the age of 33 you've got 50 different
companies involving everything from film
m making to um conditioner cleaning and
and generating more than $10 million in
sales. I go this is not what they told
me about the need for focus in the
school of business. They said focus. You
kind of break that law it seems of
focus.
So um
uh so I've I've never really thought of
myself as a business person. Um uh
obviously you know on paper I am an
entrepreneur um or a business person.
Um, uh, I've never really been
interested in the bottom line, despite,
uh, what the, uh, the the doc docu
series seems to betray. Um, uh, I've
I've really have been interested in
creating things I can be proud of. Um,
and uh, and a lot of those things come
out of personal frustration. And I must
have been frustrated quite a lot when I
was young because I've and and ended up,
you know, trying a lot of things. Um uh
and um and I just found it great fun um
investing in you know people I met um
you know uh you know somebody will come
along and uh you know the the the music
business may have been um you know
struggling at one stage in my career
with with with the advent of the iPod
and um you know a couple of guys come
along and say um you know we we you
should do mobile phones. this is, you
know, this would replace the music
business and um and they were great
great great people and and um you know,
so we thought screw it, you know, let's
do it. Let's you know, go into the
mobile phone business and and and so if
we if we'd stayed still and only done
only focused on one business, um
uh maybe let's say the record business,
um let's say record stores um which is
one of our earlier earlier things. um uh
we most like we wouldn't have a business
today because the re you know mega
stores and v and and record stores no
longer exist because um the the iPod and
free music really put them out of
business. Um um so you know so by
actually going against the rule rules of
you know what you learn in business
school um we you know we we still going
strong you know 55 years later um and um
uh and diversification actually saved
us. I mean like you know during COVID um
uh you know Virgin Atlantic and our very
badly hit companies u was was saved by
Virgin mean being able to sell sell
Virgin Galactic shares. So um so
diversification
um is far more exciting. Um you you
learn a hell of a lot more and um it can
be useful in times of crisis. It's clear
that only a great delegator would would
be able to diversify without creating um
spreading themselves too thinly per se.
And I guess that goes back to that skill
of divers um of delegation.
Your headm said something to you that my
best friend Jueway said to me when I was
18 years old after I dropped out of
university. My best friend Joe
Rididgeway um from Plymouth said to me,
I remember I was stood in this this
curry shop on uh on [clears throat] in
Rushol. said, "You're either going to be
a millionaire or in prison." Now, when I
read that this morning when I was doing
research on um your headmaster, it
stopped me in and my breakfast halfway
through my sort [laughter] of chew. I
thought, "Gosh,
now I know why he said that to me
because he knew there was a certain
level of desperation in me and there was
a certain craftiness which was could
either take me could either be used for
good or evil." when you was when you did
the student magazine
that that um prophecy appeared to come
true one day when the police raided your
um magazine and arrested you. And I
learned about this in the doc docue
series last night. Your your mother then
puts her house on the line to get you
out of jail. And you choose to expand
you you choose to expand your way out of
the problem, which for you meant, as it
said in the docue series, opening 30
records stores that year to be able to
pay your mother back. Have you always
chosen to expand your way out of
problems?
Um,
yes. I think I think the answer is yes.
Um, I mean, I I spent [clears throat]
one night in prison.
um in those days you had to pay tax on
um records if you ship them to Europe.
Sadly with Brexit you're going to have
people going to have to do that again.
But um uh and um uh and I stumbled into
the fact that if you drove across the
channel and drove back again, you had a
piece of paper which said you'd exported
the records and therefore you didn't
have to pay the tax. And um and um uh
but uh anyway, so we we we we we we got
a a a bad rap on the knuckles. I spent
spent a night in prison and swore never
ever ever uh um to spend a second night
in prison in my life. Um and uh and yes,
we expanded fast in order to pay pay off
the fine. Um uh we just needed the
turnover. Um and it was it was actually
um uh actually a really um uh a
wonderful booster to to all the team at
Virgin to to um uh and um uh and
fortunately, you know, we managed within
three years to pay to pay it off. Um but
um I mean I it sometimes we're expanding
uh uh expanding just for the shared
pleasure of learning about something new
and um uh and then maybe occasionally on
like like on that occasion we're
expanding to get ourselves out of pro
out of trouble.
Quick one. This episode is brought to
you by Mercedes-Benz who recently got in
touch to support the driver CEO. I'm
becoming quite the fan of electric cars
and of course a huge fan of
Mercedes-Benz. I have one of my own. The
Mercedes-Benz luxury electric range
known as Mercedes EQ is at the very
forefront of this industry which is what
really stood out to me. If you're
looking for a business car, the
sustainability credentials, economic
benefits, general convenience, and high
levels of luxury, which everybody knows
Mercedes-Benz for in their all electric
cars are truly groundbreaking. In terms
of features, their next generation
technology across the range is second to
none. For example, there's intuitive
MBUX technology with AI that learns your
behavior and keeps you connected to the
things that matter to you. Not to
mention, all Mercedes EQ cars offer
exemption from the ultra low emission
zone charge and London congestion
charge. So, if like me, you're really
excited about all things electric cars.
And if you haven't checked out the
Mercedes EQ range, then search
Mercedes-Benz Fleet to see how they can
take your business to the next level.
Quick word from one of our sponsors. You
must be living under a rock if you've
not heard about Wei work. But I think in
the modern world where people are
working remotely on the go. They're
entrepreneurs building their businesses.
We work has never been more important
than it is right now. There are some
incredible things WeWork have released
to enable entrepreneurs like you, like
me to be able to work flexibly,
comfortably with the resources, Wi-Fi,
and everything else, the infrastructure
we need in hundreds of locations around
the world. And one of those things is
called we work all access where if you
have all access we work you can work in
hundreds of different locations as you
travel around the world and as you move
around the world and as you go to
meetings around the world. We work for
entrepreneurs in my opinion is a total
gamecher. And to encourage you to check
we work out if you've never worked in
one before. I'm offering 50% off a
one-day booking if you go to wei.co/co
and use the promo code diary. Check it
out. I love We work and they've been
great partners and supporters of this
podcast. The most from my perspective,
one of the most um terrifying decisions
you ever made was to go into the airline
industry. Warren Buffett's fairly famous
for saying that he has once considered
employing someone to sit in his office
and every time he feels like investing
in an airline to talk him out of it
because it's such a absurd, terrifying
business to get into.
You were running a very successful
record label and record store um
business by then. you had many, many
companies, many investments, and you
decided to take this huge bet to start
an airline.
Now, there's a lot said about why. Could
you tell me in your own words why?
Um, it it it really was out of
frustration of um flying on other
people's airlines, having having bad
experiences
um and feeling that um we could uh we
could do it better, we could make it it
could be more fun. I mean in in in those
days uh you know if you flew on say
British Airways it was a monopoly. Um uh
they you know you were you you maybe got
a lump of chicken dumped in your lap. Um
there was no entertainment. Um the cabin
crew certainly didn't enjoy working for
the company and um and you really felt
like you were just being herded from A
to B in in a in a cattle truck. Um and
um
uh and so uh I flew I was flying all
over the world um to um
uh to to visit our record companies
because we had record companies in most
countries around the world and and just
felt you know we we could we could do it
better. Um uh somebody came along to us
with the idea of a business airline um
only I didn't think that would be very
exciting to run. Um and um uh but I
thought a a really really good quality
airline for everybody including business
people um you know would be a something
special to run and um uh and so ended up
ringing up Boeing and um and having a
wonderful discussion with a wonderful
guy called RJ Wilson and um ending up um
being able to uh lease a secondhand 747
from him. Um
and um and because you know uh I do like
to you to protect the downside which is
obviously important in business. Um I
did a deal with him whereby I could hand
the plane back at the end of 12 months
if you know if my instinct was not
right. Um and um but fortunately at the
end of 12 months people loved flying on
Burge Atlantic and we ended up you know
getting a second and a third plane from
Boeing and um and that was yeah 38 years
ago and um and
you know Virgin Atlantic has um
uh you know it's it's like a uh it's
roughly the same age as my daughter um
uh you know um she's been the airlines
been bullied
um by British Airways. I mean, famously
through the dirty tricks campaign. Um
uh it was a really tough time. Um we
took BA to court and we won the biggest
liel damages in history. Um
uh um she's had she's had to go through
the like think crashes like the um uh n
911 disaster um the 2008 disaster um the
COVID disaster
um and uh and I'm sure that we've it you
know that that it's cost us more money
than than we've ever made from it. Um uh
but it's been the flagship, you know,
for Virgin. Um it's enabled us to launch
other companies in different countries
around the world on the back of the the
strong brand and the strong reputation
it's had. Um and uh she's she's a a
daughter that I will zealously protect
and and um uh as long as I can. When you
look back at why that business survived,
considering the fierce competition,
considering what British Airways did and
were ultimately found guilty of in court
with their dirty tricks campaigns, the
bit that really stuck out to me
yesterday was hearing that they had a
staff member hack into your customer
database um to to kind of see spy on
what you were doing. That went to court.
You won the battle. Um and that acted as
a a real boost, I think, for Virgin
because it kind of staged you as this
sort of David versus Goliath. um
situation where you were the underdog.
But as you look back on that journey um
many people have fallen in that
industry. It's a graveyard as you say in
the documentary.
Why did Virgin win? What was it? Was it
brand? Was it customer experience? Was
it just grit?
I think I think that um
uh
I think a lot comes back to staff. I
mean um that we we've always had a great
um team of people working at Virgin.
They're they're really proud of the
company. Um uh um they um
uh we've done things, you know, we've
always been ahead of the head of the
pack in in um new innovations. So um you
know, seatback videos, for instance, we
were the first airline to introduce
seatback videos in the world. Um uh the
um uh you know, sleeper seats for
business class passengers. um uh um you
know, standup bars and um and and
lounges and so on. Um you know, colle
collecting money at the door, you know,
um for charity that Virgin was the first
to do that and now pretty well every
airline and most airports are doing it
as well, loose change. Um so I think um
uh you know every every little detail I
think we we um the team have got right
at at Virgin. Um and um
uh and if you get the little details
right you know um then collectively
um uh you it makes for an exceptional
company over an average company and um
you know if I'm on a Virgin plane I'll
I'll or in any Virgin company I'll have
my notebook I'll take notes I'll listen
to it listen to the staff listen to the
customers
um you know um and then act on it when I
get to the far end. and um
uh and and then be in touch back in
touch with the people who you know gave
me the ideas to thank them and tell them
what we've done and and and I think a
good a good leader has to be a good
listener. Um and if you're if you're um
uh uh and that's I think one of the most
important attributes of a good leader. I
grabbed my phone halfway through
watching the docue series yesterday when
you mentioned the seatback videos
because in the same breath you mentioned
how every accountant would tell you um
not to do many of the things that you've
chosen to do but also the banks wouldn't
even lend you the money to to do the
seatback videos. They'd give you the
money like $2 billion to do the planes
but they wouldn't give you the 10
million to do the seatback videos.
You've mentioned instinct as well a few
times.
As a CEO over the years, I've had this
battle between like instinct and the
CFO. You seem to tend to I think the
quote you said was um you tend not to
consult finance people and accounts
people when you when you have these
ideas. How have you found that battle
between the two between your instinct
and your vision and the money people
going this won't work this doesn't make
sense?
I suspect that you're an you're the
entrepreneur and and they're the CFO
because you're the entrepreneur and
they're the CFO. So, I think you just
got to believe in your your your
instinct and um and um uh and and go
with it. And if you create something,
you know, I mean, we're just opening a
new hotel in uh New York. um you know if
it's the best hotel in New York even if
it's gone over budget in in the building
of it which it which it will have done
um uh the the best always succeeds um uh
you know we we we famously during COVID
uh launched a new cruise line Virgin
Voyages um uh you know it is you know so
much better than any other cruise line
out there Um, you know, we've had two
years where we've had to moth mothball
the ships. Um, but, you know, we're
stuck with it because we know that the
the quality is such that, um, people
will seek it out and and, uh, and the
feedback's been, you know, spectacular.
I mean, it's Virgin Virgin at its
absolute best. Um, I'm actually heading
there this afternoon. Um, you know, it's
fascinating. Each ship has 78 different
nationalities working on it. um you know
1,200 people um and they're just the
best and um and it's adults only and
it's a lot of fun and um uh but you know
there were moments during COVID that we
did think you know we we definitely
chosen the wrong business to launch
Virgin at its absolute best.
What does that mean? What is Virgin at
its best?
Virgin at its best is when you launch a
new company and you know that because
you know people have experienced
previous Virgin companies um that they
will give it a try. You don't really
have to even advertise um they they they
know that when they went on a Virgin
train uh when we ran the network that it
was you know really good quality. When
they went on a Virgin plane it was great
quality. When they went into Virgin
Health Club it was good quality. um and
so on. Um and um so you know that that
gives us a big advantage with with a
brand that that uh people have tried,
they've loved. Um and so when we launch
something new like a cruise line that
they will give it a go and and we make
sure that we don't let them down. and
and and and then you know having them
try the cruise line if we decide to do a
new venture um you know we can we can we
could it's that much easier for us to
launch it off off the back of the cruise
line.
You you you are so synonymous with the
the Virgin. I don't think I I know a
person who is as synonymous with their
brand as an individual. So when you
think of Virgin you think of Richard
Branson. You think of Richard Branson
you think Virgin. Um, and in 1985 you
start doing some pretty extreme
adventures around the world which become
kind of pay [clears throat] into the
brand and give give the brand extra
meaning. Things like crossing crossing
the Atlantic by boat which sunk uh it
seems like a lot of the uh the trips you
took either collapsed like fell out the
sky into the into the the sea or the
boat sank. Um you set so many records
through that period. Um, so you know, I
was reading about you going 250 miles
per hour in a hot air balloon
across the the Pacific from Japan to the
Arctic in Canada. Again, breaking um
existing records at the time. This
became a real hallmark of like the the
Richard Branson and Virgin brand, these
extreme adventures. Was that intentional
when you did that first one? Did you was
was it because of a marketing thing or
was it because of the fun of doing it
for yourself?
It started out uh as a a mixture of the
two, but more uh we had one plane um and
somebody said, you know, why why don't
we try to bring the blue ribbon back to
Britain for the fastest boat across the
Atlantic. Um and you know, we c we can
we can build this boat. Um and um uh but
it ended up being u much more than just
a marketing adventure. it became it
became a real adventure. I mean it was
you know tremendously exciting and um I
was in in my very early 30s and and um
uh and you know it was tough but it was
it was great fun. Um there were you know
lots of um moments of drama uh which
there always are when you're trying
something that's never really been tried
before. um including as you pointed out,
we sang [laughter] we sang before we got
the whole way across. Um uh but um uh
but anyway, it makes for a good
documentary series. Um and it makes for
a good book and and and
um and you know and it did put Virgin on
the map. made Virgin a much more sexy
brand, um a more adventurous brand than
say British Airway was our rival. Um uh
and and other and other and other
brands. Um
um I mean Virgin Atlantic cheekily took
a full page ad when we when we when we
sank in the Atlantic. The only thing
that was sticking out of the Atlantic of
the boat was um the brand Virgin and um
and the ad just had the picture of the
boat sticking out of the water and and
the ad said, "Next time, Richard, take
the plane." [laughter]
And and and
of course there would there were people
who said, you know, what have you sink?
What if you end up in the in the
Atlantic? You you you know, no one's
going to want to fly an airline where
and but of course it's quite the
reverse. It's it, you know, people,
you know, it it helped put it helped put
a tiny little airline on the map um u
more more effectively than anything else
we could do and much more cheaply.
You mentioned that ad from um from your
competitor there.
In the moment, competition is the
archeneemy, you know, causing you a ton
of nuisance. But as you look back on the
competition you've had throughout the
different industries you've been in, has
the competition actually made you
stronger and better at what you've done?
Yes. And I think the reverse is also
true. um that that uh you know the these
big public companies or big um
governmentr run companies like British
Airways have been made the better um by
having um Virgin Atlantic innovating and
you know them having to you know catch
us up over the years and I think British
Airways is a better company today than
it was um you know uh 38 years ago when
we started. So competition's good for
all of us. um big big and small and um
and the only role that governments need
to play is intervening when there's
unfair competition. Um and that's one of
the most important roles a government
can play. Um is um uh uh is making sure
that they set laws that encourage
competition and don't stifle
competition. Um and um uh and you know
we've had uh yeah anyway there have been
books written about um uh about
companies that have tried to stifle
Virgin in the past but um somehow we
somehow we came through.
There's this term now called personal
branding which has become very popular
predominantly because of social media
and everybody having a channel and they
can build followers and they can try and
tell the world who their company is
using social media. But you were kind of
the first CEO personal brand to many
people because um everything you did
added value to the brand and it wasn't
just what Virgin said. I think when I
look at your story it teaches me that
the brand is what what the people do and
what the founder does becomes the brand
more so than ever. Um and I think that's
often what we lose sight of and some of
the best band brands in the world like
the Red Bulls of the world have figured
out that the things you do say much more
about the brand than what you say.
Yeah. and you are like the perfect
example of that. In the early 90s, you
got in a bit of a a struggle because of
the the broader economy and you ended up
selling your record business.
From all accounts and from speaking to
some of your current team, they said
that this was a very difficult moment
for you that it was crushing. I think
the quote that I that I was told um is
that accurate and why was it why was it
crushing?
Oh, look, I think uh
um
if if you think of your if you think of
the um
uh the things that you create like
children, which um which I I do and and
and I'd think of it like that because it
is just a bunch of people. Um um I mean,
you know, your business is yourself and
a and a group of people. Um, if you sell
it, you it's like selling selling, you
know, if you sell a company, it's like
selling a group of children. And and
that's um uh that's [clears throat]
tough all round. Um, I needed to uh I
needed a war chest um to combat British
Airways and and and and the dirty tricks
that they were um uh they they'd
launched at Virgin and um and you know,
so you know, the the war chest um that I
that I thought I could best tap into was
Virgin Records. Um the good thing was
that you know the the staff at Virgin
Records you know still had a had a job
but um working for another company and
the staff at Virgin Atlantic were safe
because we had the the financial clout
to um to deal to deal with our
competitor. Um so there are there you
know there are obviously times in life
where you have to make tough decisions
like that and um uh and
uh and yeah but it and move and move on.
Do you have any regrets about about how
that happened at that phase? Um, I have
I I I always think that if if anybody
asked me if I ever have any regrets
about anything, it would be I would be a
very sad person to answer answer
positively because, you know, I've had
the most extraordinary life. Um, it's
been full of, you know, interesting
twists and turns. Um,
uh, and I honestly really, you can't
think of anything I regret, you know, in
the past. Um the um and I think I I
really do think I'd be a sad person if I
if I had regrets. I mean it's just been
um rich with rich with um uh you know
adventure and uh and um and people and
and um and and I I'm not somebody who
looks back by and large. I mean
obviously an interview like this I will
but um uh and I suppose I've reached an
age where
you know it's important to write books
and it's important to do documentaries
and you know um because it's important
not to waste your life and and and and
it's important to share what you've
learned.
How did you feel yesterday watching the
um docu series on your life? I I was sat
just behind you, so I'd watch I'd look
at the screen and then I'd look at your
reaction and I'd see you laughing
sometimes and
um I was emotionally drained to be
honest. Um I I mean after the after
party um I just could not really get my
words out for the first half an hour. Um
uh it you found it quite you know fairly
exhausting. Um, I mean they've it's
incredible.
Uh, a really good documentary maker and
and Chris Smith is one of the best in
the world. I mean, you know, prides
himself on on his independence, which I
respect completely and and so we, you
know, we didn't have input into it. Um,
you know, obviously therefore not
everything one's going to agree with and
and not everything is, you know, in in
my brain would be exactly as as it was.
But n you know 95% 96% was was was as I
see it. And but but but just what is is
incredible was the archive footage they
managed to find. Um you know considering
we'd had my my main house burnt down my
my main house blown down in a hurricane
um twice. Um uh the fact that anything
survived to be able to make such a you
know such a really full quite you know
really quite exciting I think um docu
documentary series was um you know I
have to take my hat off to them.
And then in the uh as I watched the the
last episode of the docue series last
night, I saw you once again in typical
Richard Branson style set yourself a new
frontier, which was space. As if you,
you know, as if all of [snorts] that you
had done before wasn't enough. You you
decided to aim for the stars.
Why?
Um
so I remember um many many many years
ago um when President Gorbachoff was um
uh leader of Russia and he was trying to
bring Paris Stoker um Paris Striker uh
to um uh the west and trying to um put
out peace signs. um he invited me to
come to Russia to be the first person to
go up in a Russian um spaceship. Um but
it would have meant [snorts] uh a big
check um you know 60 million. It would
have meant um a year um learning Russian
and being in Russia
and I just didn't have the time at the
and already the the spare money to do
something like that. But it it did just
get me thinking um you know that's an
inordinate amount of money to charge for
somebody to go to space you know for
that kind of money but we we why why
couldn't I just build start building a
spaceship um and um and so we registered
Virgin Galactic Airways and um and I was
set up went around the world trying to
see if we could find somebody to build
us a spaceship and um and then just
found this genius Bert Rutan Um, you
know, to me, um, you know, I've I've
I've always dreamt of going to space one
day. Um, I think, uh, 50% of the people
listening to this program will will have
will have dreamt or will dream of going
to space. 50% will think we, you know,
why why on earth would you want to do
that? Um, but, um, you know, it's it was
the most extraordinary day of my life.
Um the my my trip to space um uh and
uh and you know looking back at this
beautiful beautiful earth that we live
on. It was um uh from space whilst
whilst floating uh um at the you know
whilst floating with a lovely group of
people um uh just an extraordinary um
experience and um uh and to be honest to
yeah to pinch a pinch pinch oneself
moment to be doing it in a spaceship
that we that we built and um um and um
uh and Uh yeah, it's so it it was a
dream come true.
In that documentary, we're also reminded
of the the cost of all of these
endeavors at a moment when there's a
shot of you taking a phone call at your
house, learning that in the leadup to um
Virgin Galactics going to space for the
first time. An astronaut had died in one
of the tests. It's a very emotional
scene, but it it is a reminder of of um
the cost of these great endeavors to
humanity that day when you received that
phone call and then you you rushed
yourself to the to the to the site.
What's on your mind?
So, it's happened to me twice in my
life. Um uh you know I was once in a
cinema in um
uh in Europe uh with my kids and I my
phone just kept
uh kept vibrating and and and I ignored
it and I ignored it and then on the sort
of third or fourth time I I decided to
walk out of the cinema and check it. Um
and one of our trains had come off um
the track and um uh and you know
straight away I knew that you know um I
just had to get to the scene of the
accident. Um and you know there were no
flights that night so we had to had to
drive through the through the night. Um
and then yeah and um uh and then anyway
we got got there um at at early early in
the morning the next day. one uh lady
had died and you know and I um went went
to the morg to meet the relatives and um
you know we we had a hug hug and um uh
and um I mean fortunately it turned out
it wasn't actually a virgin's fault but
um you know but you're still obviously
responsible for um the fact that it was
on a virgin train um and um and
uh and then you've got to as as owner um
you know confront talk to the press and
and um and but it it it I think the fact
that you make the fact that you make an
effort and get get there quickly uh is
very important and and the same when
when when we uh lost a test spaceship um
uh I knew straight away based on my
previous experience with the train that
I I needed to be there as fast as
possible. Is there a conversation about
discontinuing Virgin Galactic at that
moment after losing that life?
Yeah, there was. I mean, you know, we I
sat down with George Whiteside and just
said, you know, is it, you know, asked
ourselves questions. Is it worth it? You
is it worth um you know, is it worth
continuing? What what what would happen
if we had a second accident? Um uh you
know, we would never never be forgiven.
I mean it would you know it would um our
reputations would be destroyed. Um um uh
um but then we then we spoke with all
the all the engineers and um we spoke
with many of the people who'd signed up
to go to space and and we spoke with the
family and um of of um uh of the pilots
who who'd lost. And with one with one
voice they said, you know, you just got
to you've got to continue. Um uh and um
uh and we did and and uh we're still you
know we're still
um you know we're still at the early
stage of space travel. There's still
risks. I mean it's we think that um you
know we don't um you know we think that
we're through all the big risks. Um uh
you know we we've got a we can
automatically switch off a um an engine
if you know if anything's wrong goes
wrong with the rocket motor just and and
and we've got we've got astronauts
actually flying flying our craft. Um but
it is the it is it is the early stages
and um but um but I think everybody
everybody involved are doing it with
their eyes open. One of the most um
beautiful, heart-wrenching scenes from
the docu series is in 2021 when you are
months away from your first space flight
on your on your own spaceship,
spacecraft, space plane, whatever,
whatever the terminology is.
Um [clears throat]
you've named it after your mother.
You've named the mother ship after Eve.
And then tragically um she passes away
from COVID
before she has the chance to embark on
that space journey with you which she
was planning to do.
That phase of your life when you lose
your mother, when you lose Eve,
what impact does that have on you and
your mission?
Um it it I mean first of all she'd lived
a a uh a long life and and extraordinary
life and and so was
um uh yeah uh I mean yeah I was very
very fortunate and our family were very
fortunate to have had her around so
long. Um and um uh and the absolute last
thing that she would have wanted was for
for um for the mission or any missions
to be held up um as a result of her
death. I mean, you know, she she will uh
you know, if there's a star up there, um
she'll be on it and and I'm sure that
she was there and uh there in spirit
when um when when I went to space and
she definitely would have been smiling
smiling down down at us with with my
dad, Ted. Um and um uh so uh yeah and so
I think when when we when we lose loved
ones we it's you know we you you live on
you live on through your parents and
your and um your children live on
through you and and your grandchildren
live on through your your children and
uh and you know that's the sort of
wonder the wonders of life. And when you
came down from that space flight, um,
which is detailed in your your second
memoir in the the sort of updated
version which has just been updated,
you wrote a letter to your mom after
coming down from space. You said, "Dear
mom, you always told me to reach for the
stars while I took my own winding road.
But I always knew when to follow your
lead. You always pushed us to our
limits. You were always a dreamer. You
urged me to strive for every opportunity
I saw. You told me to chase my wildest
fantasies, to live life to the full. how
you lived, how you loved, and how you
are missed.
Yeah. I mean, she um
you know, I think uh
uh yeah, hopefully um yeah, when when
people read the book, they'll think
about their own their own moms and dads
and and um and you know, how how lucky
lucky we are to have moms and dads who
sacrifice so much for us. And um then as
as we're as we as we grow up and then
obviously later on in life, um one can
you one can give you know, give give
back and in looking after them as they
get a little bit older.
The docue series was a bit of a punch in
the face from the start because that
because of that opening scene about your
family where you're sat there ahead of
your journey to space trying to say some
words to Holly, Sam, and Joan, your
wonderful wife, and your kids just in
case you never make it back from space.
This is something that you've done time
and time again before you embarked on
these journeys.
um
really really difficult to watch. Really
difficult to watch. Um and took me by by
surprise because it was so early on in
the film.
Why Why was Why is it so hard to to get
those words out? Otherwise, you seem
like such a composed individual, but
when it came to those words, it seemed
like you you know, multiple takes. You
got up, you walked away, you came back,
got up, walked away, and came back.
So um so first of all I I do uh um I cry
in happy films. I cry in sad films. My
kids bring a box of tissues when we when
we go to the cinema or used to um and uh
so that that I'm so I am um uh you know
even even now just talking to you I can
feel tears in my eyes. So, um, so, um,
uh, so it it's not surprising for me to
suddenly not not be able to get my get
through my sentence sometimes. Um but
obviously look if you're if you're uh if
you're reading um if you're if you're if
you're speaking about as if you've as if
you've died to um you know to to your
kids and your grandkids
um yeah lots of emotions go through your
head at the time of saying of speaking I
suspect even the emotions of my god
should I be should you know is it is it
worth it and a lot a lot of the this
documentary series is asking the
question, is it selfish? Is it worth it?
Is it uh is it is it is it is it
something
um uh is it is it something that um one
should be doing? Um, I remember um I was
in I was just taking off on um to go
across the Pacific in a hot air balloon
and walking into this truck and um Joan
Thurkeet from ITN was just finishing
editing my abitery um in case I didn't
come back and she said, "You Richard, do
you do you want to sit and watch the
abitery?" Um and I said why why not and
um and you know I sat and watched the
obituary and again had a couple of tears
in my eyes at the end of it. But um but
um you know but I do think that in life
well you know one advantage of doing
these adventures is actually you do
confront the ultimate inevitability of
of um you know that you're not going to
be here forever. And so you do think
about uh you know have I left everything
in order? um you know what am I going to
say to my children what am I going to
say to my grandchildren and a lot of
people don't have that opportunity
because they they they die suddenly so
um you know so so I have written quite a
few letters over the years uh in
thinking that I just may not come back
from this adventure or that adventure
the documentary also shone a light on
Joan who has clearly been this huge rock
in your life over the years she's a
strong tenacious um honest very uh very
to the point, wonderful woman.
What does she mean to you and what has
she meant to you over the last 40, 50
years?
O um well, I was lucky enough to meet
her 45 years ago in a recording studio.
Um uh called the manor uh walked into
the kitchen and just looked across the
room and she was the most uh gorgeous
creature I'd ever seen in my life. And
it was in instantaneous love from me to
her. And it was took me a while the
other way around. But she's just a a
fantastic downto- earthth Glauswegian.
Um doesn't suffer fools gladly. Um
complete opposite to me. Um you know,
doesn't play tennis, doesn't uh run,
doesn't uh ski, doesn't climb mountains.
Um you know, doesn't go adventuring.
But, you know, she's the most fantastic
[clears throat]
mother for Holly and Sam and the
grandkids. Um, and um, uh, and she knows
what matters in life. Um, she, you know,
I mean, the the, uh, in in the end, I
suppose what matters is, you know, the
love you can give to your children. Um,
uh, the food on the table. Um
uh um yeah, but all above everything
just unreserved love um to to all
everybody around her and and and um uh
and everything else is um uh is sort of
the icing on the cake.
You're a man synonymous with living a
life worth living. One of the quotes
from the film was about, you know, not
living a life um that is full of risk is
not living at all. words to that effect.
If I was Sam or Holly, your kids, and I
asked you, I said, "Dad, what's um what
is a a life worth living?" What what
would you say to me?
I think just to to first of all fulfill
their own fulfill their own dreams. I
mean, I mean, not not to have their
father or mother push them into things
they don't want to do. So, um you know,
I was lucky. My my my daughter wanted to
be a doctor and she you she did the
medical she became a doctor. Um she now
helps this with our foundation. Um my
son um wanted to make films and and um
uh and he's a musician basically which
is his main love and he and he he does a
little bit of both of those things. Um
they're both fantastic parents and they
find the time uh for the grandkids. Um
so I think just to um you know to to
follow to follow whatever dream it is
that you have as best you can. Um and um
uh and yeah and you know we've been
lucky that our kids have kids have um I
think found their found their path in
life.
We have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the le last guest asks a
question for the next guest not knowing
who they are asking it for. Um the
question that has been left for you is
where were you when you when you felt
most vulnerable and why?
I think I felt most vulnerable um
relatively recently um during the
uh about six weeks into COVID um when
uh everything everything that we'd built
up uh looked like it was crashing down.
Um
uh and uh and interestingly when uh the
sort of British press rather than being
supportive of really really turned on us
um
uh and uh and but fortunately, you know,
my my kids and grandkids and everybody
arrived um on um at around about that
same time and u and the team just got
down and worked really hard day and to
make sure we kept as many jobs um safe
as as possible and um uh and uh and I
think pretty well every Virgin uh
company got through it and pretty well
every every employee's jobs got
protected. Um but but that was that was
maybe the toughest time in um toughest
time in my life for you know su suddenly
it just looked like one you could your
reputation and everything else was going
out of the window. It was um but CO was
tough for so many people and um um but
um yeah but but um we've we felt it too.
Holly and several members of your team
reference that as being um your toughest
moment. But the word tough is just a
word. If I zoomed in and if I was there,
what would I and I was you? What would I
have seen and what would I have felt?
When you say the word tough? Well, I
think I I I think that um I I've never
understood uh
depression. Um uh and I and I think I
understood a slight, you know, where
where people get depression from after
that exper experience. Um and it was
good, you know, it's good to under, you
know, it's good to have gone through it
myself a bit. I mean, I didn't last too
long. um uh cuz I've you know brought
brought up by you know parents who'd you
know been through the second world war
and you couldn't waste your time you
know getting depressed you know there
were much far worse things than being
depressed um but anyway it it it taught
it taught me to understand it which I
think will hopefully make me better
understand other people's depression in
the years to come
what were the symptoms of that
[sighs]
What were the symptoms of it? It's very
difficult to to pinpoint the symptoms.
But, you know, look, you just you just
feel very sorry for yourself for a day
or two and then you just have to snap
out of it and and and get, you know, my
mom my mom would have if she'd been
alive. Um well well she was but I mean
if id talked to her about it she would
have told me to pull myself together and
just and and and um get back to work and
uh and um and I think within two or
three days you know her her her words
would have been ringing in my head and
and I [clears throat] would have um o
overcome it and I did overcome it but it
just you know just a little a taste of
it. Anyway,
Richard so Richard Branson thank you so
much for your time. Um I you to me
you've when I started this podcast you
were the name you were the name that if
one day I could speak to on this podcast
I think we might as well pack it up and
finish because to me as a entrepreneur
my whole life you've always been the
north star of entrepreneurs and you've
represented and embodied what it is to
be a entrepreneur that's striving
forward to create better
in everything you do. I had the pleasure
of researching your story again now at
30 years old and it's been a tremendous
source of inspiration for me. Um to meet
you today to get to come and watch your
docu series is one of the highlights of
my entire entrepreneurial career and
life and definitely this podcast. So
thank you so much for that because I'm
I'm not sure you'll ever really
appreciate how much of an impact you
have on people like me. Um, so I want to
make sure that I while I have you here,
I have a chance to tell you and to thank
you for that because you've definitely
changed my life and um, I know I'm not
the only person. Um, so thank you. Your
book is amazing. The docue series was so
captivating. I stayed up till about 3:00
a.m. last night making sure I watched
all of it and then watched it, the last
episode again this morning and I implore
everybody to go and check it out now on
HBO. Um, but yeah, most important thing
is I just wanted to say thank you. Well,
and I thank you back and and um yeah,
many many congratulations on all all
you've achieved and all all you being a
young bastard. Uh [laughter]
all all you will achieve in the years to
come.
Thank you, Richard. [music]
Quick one from our longest standing
sponsor here. I I can't tell you over
the last I'd say over the last really
it's been about two and a half years. It
was really um post pandemic how much my
health has become such a huge priority
in my life. and I have this laser laser
focused on what I'm putting into my
body. It's funny because as you get
older, you can start to feel the things
you're putting into your body more and
more and more. Um, and if I if I put
something into my body, especially
things like gluten, if I put those
things in my body, I feel them
tremendously the next day. My energy
levels, my sleep, and everything in
between. Hule has been probably the most
important partner in my health journey
because I've been in the boardrooms,
I've been to their offices tens and tens
and tens and tens of times. I've seen
how they make their decisions on
nutrition and I trust it. Most of my
team that are in this room with me
consume it and get the benefits of it
too. So if you haven't already tried
here, do so. Intel are now one of our
sponsors on this podcast and I'm here to
tell you about their VRO platform.
Security and data protection are totally
non-negotiable when it comes to the
technology I use for my businesses. I'm
constantly thinking about where we can
upgrade our systems to protect against
potential threats. So this is where
Intel V Pro has become our go-to. Intel
V Pro is built for businesses. It has a
hardwarebased multi-layer platform
security features protecting from cyber
attacks, threat detection, and also
recovery systems all in one platform in
an ever challenging cyber landscape. If
I can put measures in place that I
believe will save me time and money,
then I absolutely will. So head over to
intel.co.uk/vpro
to find out how it could work for your
business. [music]
Heat. Heat. N.
[music]
[singing]